hey guys it's John Clark here going to
bring you a video tutorial about one of
the first flamenco songs I learned this
is called tempest add by juan serrano
i'm just going to cover the strumming
pattern in this video this is like one
of the very first I think was like the
fourth video that I ever uploaded to
YouTube something like that was this
song tempest taught so it's a long time
overdue for this tutorial but anyways
this is it this is just the strumming
pattern hopefully I'll be able to get to
the rest of the song and other videos de
strumming pattern is a rumba in 4/4 time
we're going to play the E minor chord as
we practice this pattern so these are
the strokes with a pattern first the
thumb plucks the bass note then a down
up hit up with the thumb down up
so again pluck with the thumb down up
hit up with the thumb down up okay so
I'm going to do that in slow motion as I
count it one two three four one two
three four so there's a little bit of a
tricky part to this pattern and that's
after I do the hit a lot of my some of
my other um some of my other strumming
patterns after I do that hit
I actually brush up with the the
upstroke is with the fingers the flesh
side of the fingers brushing up but in
this case it's a little bit different
has more rhythmic quality so when I do
that hit I let my bit my hand rebound
real quick and my thumb comes under for
the up shock with the thumb
so you might practice that movement a
little bit let the hand rebound
naturally the thumb gets under there
real quick just to let gravity drop the
thumb and back up okay one two three
four one two three four thumb down it up
down up thumb down lift up down up thumb
down lift up down up thumb down up up
down up one two three four
okay there's another little variation on
the strumming pattern to embellish it a
little bit that I do sometimes which is
filling out the fingers the pinky ring
middle index can call this rasgueado
that so 1 2 so 1 2 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 ok
now let's try it a little bit faster
speed okay so I'll play first few
measures of the song so you can get an
idea of this strumming pattern in
context
okay as you can see it's a pretty cool
strumming pattern you can leave that
strumming pattern for all kinds of
different chord progressions that
particular chord progression and a
little melody there it was again from
the song Tempest taught by juan serrano
if you want to get the tabs for that
song I would recommend buying the book
it's a great book
flamenco basic techniques published by
Mel Bay written by juan serrano it's got
that song it's got spanish romance it's
got some other really cool accessible
intermediate I would say flamenco pieces
so check it out and hopefully I get to
doing some more of this song and
tutorials and also if you're interested
in this style of music please check out
my my website where I teach a whole
bunch of my own songs and as well as a
lot of different left and right hand
techniques go to John Clark guitar
lessons calm and I'll see you over there
alright till next time thanks a lot